23
1.  Overview
2.  Image sizes
3.  Transparency
4.  Visibility
5.  Tools
6.  Effects Tools
7.  Reflectors
8.  Selection
9.  Text & Font
10. Other buttons
11. Bitmaps (BMP)
12. Cursors (CUR)
13. Icons (ICO)
14. GIFS & JPEGS
15. Preferences
16. Undo/Redo
17. Drag-Drop
18. Stretch/Shrink
19. Screen capture
20. Clipboard
21. Extractor
22. Rotator
23. Alpha

1.  Overview

   NOT UPDATED	

   This program is for makng small BMPs, Icons or Cursors.
   The layout is such that 3 images can be worked on at a
   time.  The red right arrow selects the working image
   which will be highlighted by the red number 1,2 or 3.
   Clicking the icon also selects the working image.
   Nearly all the buttons have a tooltiptext.  Currently
   the program is only suitable for True Color setting
   ie 24 or 32 bit. 

2.  Image sizes

   Width and height can be anything from 1x1 to 64x64.

3.  Transparency

   For icons & cursor a usually unique color has been 
   selected for the transparent color which will  mark the
   transparent area of the image.  The button in the Colors 
   panel, with an eraser, allows transparent areas to be 
   drawn. These areas can be marked, see Preferences. 

4.  Visibility

   To show an icon or cursor against other background
   colors hold the mouse down on the Visibility color
   strip.

5.  Tools

   Drawing is done by holding one of the  mouse buttons
   down.  Left button for Left color and Right button for
   Right color.  The Fill and Color picker Tools have their
   own cursor.  Note that, as it stands, the Color picker
   also shows the grid color.  The ten shading tools shade
   from Left to Right color.

   The Rotate 90 Tools act on the whole image as soon as
   the button is pressed.
   
    Tools 2

   These are used like the other Tools but operate over a
   small area as the mouse is moved.  They will not change
   transparent pixels apart from the Checkerboard,
   Horizontal & Vertical Line Tools.

6.  Effects Tools

   The 7 Effects buttons operate as soon as the button is pressed. 
   Also if a selection rectangle is on they only act inside it. 
   To fix the effects click on the Drawing panel. However the
   Border and Relace color operations act immediately 
   (See Selection).

    Mirrors

   The 4 Mirrors act in the same way as the Effects buttons.

7.  Reflectors
 	
   The 4 reflectors only act when a select rectangle is on.
   They reflect the pattern inside to outside the rectangle.

8.  Selection

   There are 3 buttons for dealing with a selection. 

   Select ON:  Cursor changes to a cross and a selection
   rectangle can be drawn with the mouse. When pressed
   again this cancels the operation.(See Effects)

   Move Selection: Cursor changes to a 4-way arrow and
   the selection can be moved with the Left mouse button 
   held down.  The Right mouse button fixes the position.
   Any of the Tools button etc cancels the operation. 
   The space left behind is filled with the transparent color.

   Copy Selection: as Move Selection except that the space
   left behind is unchanged.

9.  Text & Font

   Text brings up a separate window in which a single line
   of text can be entered and moved around with the arrow
   buttons for a preview before accepting. Text takes the
   Left color which can be changed on the Text window.
   The text line can also be moved around with the arrow
   keys.

   A Font Table is included in the Text window.  It will
   open up with the same font that was selected.  By
   clicking on the Table, that character is transferred
   to the frmText text box. Note that not all fonts
   are transferred exactly the same.

   ClearType can be toggled on for True Type & Open fonts.
  
10. Other buttons

   Black arrows: at the top left of the large edit window
   - scroll and flip the image.  These can also act just
   in a selection rectangle, whence a click on the drawing
   panel is needed to fix them.

   Clear [X]:  clears the image to the transparent color
   and kills undo files for that image.

   Reload [R]: loads back any original opened file and
   also kills undo files.

   Palette buttons [0,1,2,3,4]: changes the main palette
   to a different color set.  Colors are changed by 
   clicking on the palette strips.  A standard system
   color picker is included. On the main palette.
   Left or Right click for Left or Right color.

   Erase button (to the right of the palette) Left/Right click
   sets Left/Right color to Erase color.

   Grid On/Off checkbox.

   Mask button:  This shows the transparency mask where
   white is completely transparent and black partially
   or non-transparent ie does not show an alpha mask.
	
11. Bitmaps (BMP)

   These will always be a single image and can be opened
   into any of the image panes 1, 2 or 3.  

12. Cursors (CUR)

   Only 32 x 32 images can be saved as a cursor (CUR), 
   and the active point of the cursor (HotX, HoyY) can
   be set by the Cursor scrollbars. The Cursor menu has
   the facility to test a cursor (or icon), by first loading it 
   from a cursor (or icon) file, and cancelling that cursor.

13. Icons (ICO)

   Up to 3 icons can be extracted from a multi-icon file.
   Vista icons, containing onky PNG segments, cannot be
   read by this program. Single image panes, panes 1 & 2
   or 1 & 2 & 3 can be saved as a single or multi-icon file.
   Saving all 3 icons at the standard sizes (16x16, 32x32 & 
   48x48) and using  those as the main form icon will allow
   the exe file to  display the correctly sized icon in 
   Windows Explorer.

14. GIFS & JPEGS

   Can be read but not saved as a GIF or JPEG.  There is
   no great advantage with small images.

15. Preferences

    Optimized saving   

   The default saving optimizes according to the number
   of colors in the image.  So a 2 color image can be
   saved as 1 bpp, up to 16 colors 4 bpp, up to 256
   colors 8 bpp and 24 bpp beyond that.  Optimization
   can be switched off whence saving will be 24 bpp for
   BMPs and 8 bpp for the rest.  

    Color mode   

   There is an option to set the color mode to HALFTONE
   or COLORONCOLOR.  HALFTONE interpolates between 
   different colors whereas COLORONCOLOR  deletes or 
   simply adds in extra pixels of the same colors as
   the source image. Both have their pros & cons.  
   This setting is also used by the Clipboard when 
   pasting an image.
   COLORONCOLOR can be better for simple images where
   an exact copy is wanted, whereas HALFTONE doesn't
   lose pixels and is more realistic for complex pictures.
   In general, better to leave it at HALFTONE.

    Aspect ratio

   For Capturing from a drawn rectangle and for
   Clipboard pasting, the aspect ratio can be set
   or ignored.

    Marked pixels

   Optionally mark transparent pixels with a white
   diagonal line or a white square.

    GFX.INI file

   Upto 8 Recent files are saved first in the INI file.
   Then the Last Opened Folder followed by the
   Preferences, Grid color, the Selected Palette and
   the Location of the Rotator Window.
   When the opened files exceed 8 they overwrite from
   the beginning of the list.

16. Undo/Redo

   The number of Undo/Redo levels is somewhat arbitrary
   and has been set at 20.  The system works by saving
   files to the application folder. They are named :-

     SAV(Image number)(gen number).dat

   and are deleted when the program is exitted.  The
   first two entries are the width and height of the
   image followed by 32 bpp 2D array elements. In the
   source code the Undo levels are set in Form_Initialize.

   The Undo all button deletes the SAV files for that
   image. fixes the current image and backs it up.
   The undo number & maximum undo number are shown
   above the image pane.
   
17. Drag-Drop

   Picture files can be dropped onto the exe or onto one
   of the image panes of the running program.

18. Stretch/Shrink

   This stretches or shrinks the image in one pane to
   another and uses the preferred color mode.

19. Screen capture

   Menu item to capture into one of the 3 image panes.
   The magnification (x1, x2, x4) can also be set on
   this menu if wanted.  When in Capture mode the
   Spacebar Captures and the Esc key Cancels. The
   window, showing the magnified image, can be moved
   with the mouse.  

   Alternatively the image, within a drawn rectangle, 
   can be captured.  The Spacebar captures and the Esc 
   key cancels. Additionally for this, the aspect ratio
   can be kept or ignored.

20. Clipboard
   
   Menu items to copy to and from the Clipboard for any
   of the image panes.  Also View & Clear Clipboard.
   Pasting uses the preferred color mode and aspect
   ratio.

21. Extractor

   Menu brings up the Extractor window.  OPEN to extract
   icons, cursors or bmps from files:
   bmp,exe,dll,frx,ctx,ico,cur,icl,res,ani,ocx,ica
   and All Files option.

   Caviats:
   1. Only for images 1x1 to 64x64
   2. Does not distinguish between icons and cursors
      so a cursor Hot spot will need resetting if wanted
   3. The method relies on matching the pattern
      "40000"  for a bitmap info header (BMIH) and then
      establishing whether it is a bmp or icon(cursor).
      This method enables icons to be extracted even
      when the standard icon header is different.
      Occasionally it will get a false positive where
      a string of bytes happens to get through the
      pattern filter but is not a valid icon.  This
      will give a random or partial image and can be
      ignored

22. Rotator
   
   Menu brings up the Rotator window for the currently
   selected image, with or without a selected rectangle.
   Rotation varies in steps of 5 degrees from -180 to +180.
   Note that this does not swap the overall width & height,
   unlike the Rotate 90 tools.  This can give unexpected
   results when the center point is off pixel. The vacated
   space left by a rotation can be left unchanged, filled
   with the transparent or Right color.  The Show button 
   gives a preview and when satisfactory, press the 
   Accept/Close button.

23. Alpha

   This menu allows the Alpha value and Original colors for
   32bpp images to be created or changed. Smaller Alpha 
   values allow merging with the background and an be 
   tested, back on the main  screen, by pressing one of the
   Visibilty colors.
